Precisions about Integer/struct/mapping storage (#374)
cairo-book/cairo-book.github.io: src/ch99-01-03-01-storage-variables.md

The storage struct is a [struct](./ch05-00-using-structs-to-structure-related-data.md) like any other,
except that it **must** be annotated with `#[storage]` allowing you to store mappings using the `LegacyMap` type.

### Storing basic data types

> Basic data types are single values contained in a `felt252`, except for `u256` which is a struct of 2 `felt252`.

Author: I don't know, it gives more precision ? 
with ''basic data types'' naming, it feels like we're only talking about types that fit into felt252?

but yeah, it sounds like a repetition of 2.2 Data types, will remove it

The address of such variables in storage is `sn_keccak(variable_name)`, with variable_name as the ASCII encoding of the variable's name. As keccak256 hash doesn't fit into a felt252, we use `sn_keccak` which is defined as the first 250 bits of the Keccak256 hash.

> In the case of `u256`, the address will be a pointer to `low : felt252`, with `high : felt252` stored contiguously.

Author: true.

### Storing structs

> The compiler knows how to store basic data types, such as unsigned integers (`u8`, `u128`, `u256`...), `felt252`, `bool`, `ContractAddress`, etc. But what if you want to store a custom struct in storage? In that case, you have to explicitly tell the compiler how to store your struct in storage.

Reviewer: This is not very accurate, actually you can store these types because the `Store` trait is implemented for these types in the core library.

```suggestion
Most types from the core library, such as unsigned integers (`u8`, `u128`, `u256`...), `felt252`, `bool`, `ContractAddress`, etc. implement the `Store` trait and can thus be stored without further action. But what if you wanted to store a struct that you defined yourself? In that case, you have to explicitly tell the compiler how to store your struct.
```

Author: mmh i didn't modify anything of this. But the suggestion is better, i commit it

> In our example, we want to store a `Person` struct in storage, so we have to tell the compiler how to store it in storage by adding a derive attribute of the `starknet::Store` trait to our struct definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example, we want to store a `Person` struct in storage, which is possible by implementing the `Store` trait for the `Person` type. This can be achieved by simply adding a `#[derive(starknet::Store)]` attribute on top of our struct definition.
```

```rust, noplayground
{{#include ../listings/ch99-starknet-smart-contracts/listing_99_03_example_contract/src/lib.cairo:person}}
```

> The address of structs is `sn_keccak(variable_name)`, pointing to the first element of the struct. All other elements contained in the struct are stored contiguously.

Reviewer: Might be worth adding an example of how storing a struct containing a struct works when illustrating the value at the base address on top of the suggestion. Feel free to add more details to the suggestion if it's still a bit hard to grasp

```suggestion
The base storage address for structs remains `sn_keccak(variable_name)`, and the value contained at this address is the first primitive type contained by the struct.

Subsequent fields are stored in addresses contiguous to the first elements at addresses `base_address + i`.
```

Author: really better and more precise than mine. thank you.

<span class="caption">Listing 99-2bis: Storing mappings</span>

In mappings, the address of the value at key `k_1,...,k_n` is `h(...h(h(sn_keccak(variable_name),k_1),k_2),...,k_n)` where ℎ is the Pedersen hash and the final value is taken `mod (2^251) − 256`.

> If the key of the mapping is a struct, each element of the struct constitutes a key. For example, if you have struct with two fields, the address will be `h(h(sn_keccak(variable_name),k_1),k_2)` - where `k_1` and `k_2` are the values of the two fields of the struct.

Reviewer: This requires the struct to implement the `Hash` trait, which can be derived with the `#[derive(Hash)]` attribute

Author: In NG quest, the struct didn't implement this trait and it worked.  I guess it is because all its members (basic types) already implement it?

Author: If yes, i should precise that we need to use the #[derive(Hash)] if and only if one of the struct members do not implement this trait?

Reviewer: > In NG quest, the struct didn't implement this trait and it worked. I guess it is because all its members (basic types) already implement it?

Really? That's odd, it should be the case. This might be a requirement that was added in 2.2.0, as the `Hash` trait wasn't even a thing before

Reviewer: Here's the error in 2.2 if you try to compile without it

```shell
error: Trait has no implementation in context: core::hash::LegacyHash::<adder::Contract::Dapp>
 --> /Users/msaug/cairo_projects/adder/src/lib.cairo[contract]:77:47
                    hash::LegacyHash::<MyStruct>::hash(0x1a432f1ecd4c0ac028ebde3a3f78510a21d54087b161590a63080d33b702b8d, key))
                                              ^**^
                                              ```

Author: ok after many tests on my local environment, you're definitely right.
I was wrong because Chest struct was actually not included in a mapping as a key.

I tried with 2.0.0 and 2.2.0 , actually both of them need the Hash trait to be implemented for the struct to be hashed in a .cairo file.

<span class="caption">Listing 99-2bis: Storing mappings</span>

> In mappings, the address of the value at key `k_1,...,k_n` is `h(...h(h(sn_keccak(variable_name),k_1),k_2),...,k_n)` where ℎ is the Pedersen hash and the final value is taken `mod2251−256`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In mappings, the address of the value at key `k_1,...,k_n` is `h(...h(h(sn_keccak(variable_name),k_1),k_2),...,k_n)` where ℎ is the Pedersen hash and the final value is taken `mod (2^251) − 256`.
```

> If the key of the mapping is a struct, each element of the struct constitue a key. For example, if you have a 2 elements struct as a key, the address will be `h(h(sn_keccak(variable_name),k_1),k_2)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the key of the mapping is a struct, each element of the struct constitutes a key. For example, if you have struct with two fields, the address will be `h(h(sn_keccak(variable_name),k_1),k_2)` - where `k_1` and `k_2` are the values of the two fields of the struct.
```

Author: hoops, some french word in my writing, sorry.

> Additionnaly, in the case of a nested mapping such as `LegacyMap((ContractAddress, ContractAddress), u8)`, the address will be computed in the same way : `h(h(sn_keccak(variable_name),k_1),k_2)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, in the case of a nested mapping such as `LegacyMap((ContractAddress, ContractAddress), u8)`, the address will be computed in the same way: `h(h(sn_keccak(variable_name),k_1),k_2)`.
```
